1. application form
2. statement of purpose
3. academic transcripts 
4. letter of recommendation
5. extracurriculars
6. SAT, toefl

#1 grades are more important to get into a university
#2 start applying at the beginning of 12th grade


Why are admissions essays so important to getting into Ivy League colleges?
They help the admissions officers understand who you are. 
Your academic stats are just a way of estimating how prepared you are for the
rigors of the college. There might be millions of people with excellent grades
and numerous extracurricular activities, the only way an admissions officer can
choose the right person is through an essay.

The secret is that any topic can be a winner but it all depends on your approach. 
If you spend the time to analyze your subject and can convey that quality of 
thought that is unique to you through words, you'll have a powerful essay. 
It doesn't have to be beautifully written or crafted as the next great American 
novel. At its core the essay is not a "writing test" it's a "thinking test". 
So you do need to spend the time to make sure that your thoughts are conveyed 
correctly. It may not be pretty writing but it has to be clear.

MISTAKES THAT GUARANTEE FAILURE
1. Don't Be Someone Else:
    Admissions officers aren't looking for a perfect student. A lot of students
    think that they need to be who the admissions officer want them to be. 
    Present yourself in an honest way and write about your genuine thoughts. 

2. Don't Choose A Topic That Sounds Good But You Don't Care About:
    It's critical that you select a topic that's meaningful to you because you
    will be able to write about the topic in a complete personal way.

3. Not Thinking Before Writing:
    Spend time thinking about what you will write. This will help you weed out 
    the unimportant topics.

4. Not Answering The Question:
    Don't prevaricate! Answer the question which is asked in the essay. 

5. Not Sharing Something About Yourself:
    The main purpose of the admissions essay is to impart something about 
    yourself that's not found in the application. Still, many students
    forget this, especially when writing about a topic such as a person 
    they'd like to meet or a favorite book or piece of literature. In these 
    cases, they may write so much about why they admire the person or the 
    plot of the book that they forget to show the connection to themselves. 
    Always ask yourself if you are letting the admissions officers know 
    something about yourself through your essay

6. Forgetting Who Your Readers Are:
    The admissions officers are adults not peers. The essay should be 
    comfortable but not too informal. 

7. Tackling Too Much Of Your Life:
    An essay of 800 to 1000 words doesn't afford you the space to write about 
    your 10 greatest accomplishments in your life. Just take 1 incident or 
    event that was the most compelling and elaborate it thoroughly in depth.

8. Having A Boring Introduction:
    Some people repeat the question asked or state their names, these things
    don't grab the attention of the admissions officer. Having a good start 
    always helps. Think about how you can describe a situation that your were
    in , convey something that you strongly believe in or share an anecdote.

9. Latching On To An Issue You Don't Really Care About:
    Write how something is important to you or how you connect to it. If you 
    don't, then you won't end up writing with all your spirit.

10. Resotring Gimmicks:
    Some people send some gifts to the essay. Some people even attach cash!
    Don't do this ludicrous thing, its called bribing. Admissions officeres 
    don't care about your stupid gifts.

11. Trying To Make Too Many Points:
    Go in depth into a specific topic and make a strong case for your 
    position. Its better to have a single point than having too many.

12. Not Being Specific:
    Tell the details of your story rather than beating around the bush.
    Details bring the admissions officer into your mind to feel your story. 

13. Crossing The Line:
    Some people think they can write anything in the essay. No! You can't!
    They write things they won't reveal otherwise, like, getting drunk and
    things like that. Don't put stupid jokes in the essay. 

14. Repeating What's In The Application Form:
    the essay is the best opportunity that you'll have to either delve 
    into something you wrote in the application form or to expound on
    something new that doesn't really fit on the application form. It
    doesn't help you to regurgitate what's already on the application
    form.

15. Not Having A Connectoin With The Application Form:
    While you don't want to repeat information from the applicatoin form 
    in your essay, it's usually a good idea to have some continuity between
    the form and your essay. 

16. Not Going Deep Enough:
    Ask yoursef "why?" while writing the essay.

17. Get Feedback:
    Get feedback about your essay from others, but not too much feedback
    such that there are too many opinions given to you and you have to
    change a substantial part of your essay.

18. Not Writing To The Specific College: 
    Your essay should be specific to the college. Explain some things about 
    the college you like and why would you like to study there.






